ENH Add the fused CSR dense case for Euclidean Specializations (#25044)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/whats_new/v1.3.rst

  by :user:`John Pangas <jpangas>`, :user:`Rahil Parikh <rprkh>` ,
  and :user:`Alex Buzenet <albuzenet>`.

> - |Feature| The following functions and estimators now support pairs of
>   sparse CSR matrices and dense NumPy arrays for datasets:

Author: ```suggestion
- |Enhancement| A multi-threaded routine for pair of datasets consisting
  of a sparse CSR matrix and a dense NumPy array has been introduced.

  The following estimators now either support this new case or have
  better performance for this case:
```

  - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin`
  - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin_min`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.AffinityPropagation`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.Birch`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.MeanShift`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.OPTICS`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.SpectralClustering`
  - :func:`sklearn.feature_selection.mutual_info_regression`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsRegressor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.LocalOutlierFactor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.NearestNeighbors`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.Isomap`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.LocallyLinearEmbedding`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.TSNE`
  - :func:`sklearn.manifold.trustworthiness`
  - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelPropagation`
  - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelSpreading`

>   :pr:`25044` by :user:`Julien Jerphanion <jjerphan>`.

Author: ```suggestion
  For instance, :meth:`sklearn.NearestNeighbors.kneighbors` is up to 2
  times faster for this case now on laptops.

  :pr:`25044` by :user:`Julien Jerphanion <jjerphan>`.
```

  by :user:`John Pangas <jpangas>`, :user:`Rahil Parikh <rprkh>` ,
  and :user:`Alex Buzenet <albuzenet>`.

> - |Enhancement| A multi-threaded routine for pair of datasets consisting
>   of a sparse CSR matrix and a dense NumPy array has been introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- |Enhancement| Added a multi-threaded Cython routine to the compute squared
  Euclidean distances (sometimes followed by a fused reduction operation) for a
  pair of datasets consisting of a sparse CSR matrix and a dense NumPy.
```

>   The following estimators now either support this new case or have
>   better performance for this case:
> 
>   - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin`
>   - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin_min`
>   - :class:`sklearn.cluster.AffinityPropagation`
>   - :class:`sklearn.cluster.Birch`
>   - :class:`sklearn.cluster.MeanShift`
>   - :class:`sklearn.cluster.OPTICS`
>   - :class:`sklearn.cluster.SpectralClustering`
>   - :func:`sklearn.feature_selection.mutual_info_regression`
>   - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier`
>   - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor`
>   - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier`
>   - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsRegressor`
>   - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.LocalOutlierFactor`
>   - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.NearestNeighbors`
>   - :class:`sklearn.manifold.Isomap`
>   - :class:`sklearn.manifold.LocallyLinearEmbedding`
>   - :class:`sklearn.manifold.TSNE`
>   - :func:`sklearn.manifold.trustworthiness`
>   - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelPropagation`
>   - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelSpreading`
> 
>   For instance, :meth:`sklearn.NearestNeighbors.kneighbors` is up to 2
>   times faster for this case now on laptops.

Reviewer: Let's be a little bit more informative about the typical cases where one would expect a performance improvement without going too much in the details:

```suggestion
  This can improve the performance following functions and estimators.
  
  - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin`
  - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin_min`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.AffinityPropagation`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.Birch`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.MeanShift`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.OPTICS`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.SpectralClustering`
  - :func:`sklearn.feature_selection.mutual_info_regression`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsRegressor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.LocalOutlierFactor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.NearestNeighbors`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.Isomap`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.LocallyLinearEmbedding`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.TSNE`
  - :func:`sklearn.manifold.trustworthiness`
  - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelPropagation`
  - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelSpreading`

  A typical example of this performance improvement happens when passing a sparse
  CSR matrix to the `predict` or `transform` method of estimators that rely on
  a dense numpy representation to store their fitted parameters (or the reverse).

  For instance, :meth:`sklearn.NearestNeighbors.kneighbors` is up to 2 times faster
  for this case now on commonly available laptops.
```

  - :func:`sklearn.metrics.pairwise_distances_argmin_min`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.AffinityPropagation`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.Birch`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.MeanShift`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.OPTICS`
  - :class:`sklearn.cluster.SpectralClustering`
  - :func:`sklearn.feature_selection.mutual_info_regression`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsRegressor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsClassifier`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.RadiusNeighborsRegressor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.LocalOutlierFactor`
  - :class:`sklearn.neighbors.NearestNeighbors`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.Isomap`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.LocallyLinearEmbedding`
  - :class:`sklearn.manifold.TSNE`
  - :func:`sklearn.manifold.trustworthiness`
  - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelPropagation`
  - :class:`sklearn.semi_supervised.LabelSpreading`

  A typical example of this performance improvement happens when passing a sparse
  CSR matrix to the `predict` or `transform` method of estimators that rely on
  a dense NumPy representation to store their fitted parameters (or the reverse).

>   For instance, :meth:`sklearn.NearestNeighbors.kneighbors` is up to 2 times faster
>   for this case now on commonly available laptops.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For instance, :meth:`sklearn.NearestNeighbors.kneighbors` is now up to 2 times faster
  for this case on commonly available laptops.
```
